# PythonPassword
##Python homework:


Project #2 – Bulk Password Checker Objectives • Code a script / program that produces the required output. Your mission... You goal is to create a Python script (Program) that will present the user with two different options. 1) Open an Input text file (Users-Pwds.txt) that contains usernames and passwords. Then create an Output text File (Users-Pwds-Chked.txt). The output text file will contain the username, password, and strength (POOR or Moderate or Strong). 2) A Password Generator that will prompt the user for a username and randomly generate a STRONG password. Then it will append the new username and password to the Input text file (Users-Pwds.txt). Requirements Create a source code / script file named Your_Initials_PwdChk.py. For example, if your name were Meg Griffin, you would name the script MG_ PwdChk.py. Include a documentation header (as well as comments in your code as well). Write a short program that meets all of the following requirements. 0. Present the user with the Title of your program and two menu options (Then select either option 1, 2 or 3). 0.1. You are to create your own text descriptions for option 1, 2 and 3 to output to the user. 1. If they select Option 1: 1.1. Open an Input text file (Users-Pwds.txt) stored in the same directory as your Python file. 1.1.1.The file contains usernames and passwords (Comma separated and provided with the assignment). 1.1.2.BONUS: Use the input function and ask the user for the path to the input file. 1.1.2.1. If they enter "C:\folder\file.txt" you will need to convert to a valid format for python. 1.1.2.2. If they do not enter the correct file extention (.txt) then make the correction as well. 1.2. Process all the lines in the input file, checking each password string for its strength. 1.2.1.The password checking must be done in a function (Your choice of function name) 1.2.2.The function must have only one argument, a string that contains the password (not username). 1.2.3.It will then rank the strength of the password. POOR / MODERATE / STRONG (See on Page 2) 1.2.4.Then return a string with the rank. 1.3. The program will create an Output text File (Users-Pwds-Chked.txt). 1.3.1.The output text file will contain the username, password, and strength. Again the file will be comma separated (chad.h,123abc,POOR) and one user per line. 1.4. The program will then tell the user the number of passwords checked from the file and the feedback (output) can be found in the file (provide filename). 1.5. Then the program loops back to the menu again offering displaying and offering to select 1, 2 or 3.
2. If they select Option 2: 2.1. Prompt the user for a username (No more the 20 characters in length). 2.2. Create a Function that will have no (zero) arguments. (Your choice of function name) 2.2.1. The Function will randomly generate a STRONG password (Meeting the STRONG Requirments). 2.2.2. If you need help, here is a suggestion (not required if you have a method already). 2.2.2.1. Generate Random characters the meet the requirements in a string. 2.2.2.2. Use the shuffle() function from the random module to randomize the order of the characters. 2.2.3. Then return a string that contains the new generated password. 2.2.4. YOU CANNOT USE CODE FROM THE INTERNET FOR THIS or ANY PART of your program. 2.3. Then output the new username and password to the screen. 2.4. Ask the user if they would like this saved (Y or N). 2.4.1. If Y: Open the Input file (Users-Pwds.txt) and append the username,password to the EOF. 2.4.2.BONUS: Use the input function and ask the user for the path to the output file. 2.4.2.1. If they enter "C:\folder\file.txt" you will need to convert to a valid format for python. 2.4.2.2. If they do not enter the correct file extention (.txt) then make the correction as well. 2.4.3. If N: Ask if they would like to generate a different password for this user (Y or N). 2.4.3.1. If Y: loop back, were you called your function, and then complete Steps 2.3 / 2.4 (above) again. 2.4.3.2. IF N: resume program sequence. 2.5. Then the program loops back to the menu again offering displaying and offering to select 1, 2 or 3. 3. If they select Option 3: 3.1. End the program and output to the screen: "This program is courtesy of: YourName " The following are the requirements for POOR / MODERATE / STRONG password. Passwords can contain (not required) any of the following requirements: i) Lower case letters (a – z). iii) Numbers ( 0 – 9 ). ii) Upper case letters (A – Z). iv) Symbols ( ! + - = ? # % * @ & ^ $ _ ) 1) A POOR Password is defined as: a. Contains less than 3 from the above 4 items ( i – iv ). b. Less than 8 characters in length. 2) A MODERATE Password is defined as: a. Contains 3 from the above 4 items ( i – iv ) b. Between 8 to 10 characters in length. 3) A STRONG Password is defined as: a. Meets all 4 of the above items ( i – iv )
